Sandbox Application: Privateer (#630)
ossf/tac: process/project-lifecycle-documents/Privateer_sandbox_stage.md

* ORBIT Working Group

### Mission of the project

The project must be aligned with the OpenSSF mission and either be a novel approach for existing areas, address an unfulfilled need, or be initial code needed for OpenSSF WG work. It is preferred that extensions of existing OpenSSF projects collaborate with the existing project rather than seek a new project.

Privateer is a plugin-based framework for security and compliance validation of deployed systems. Its CLI, `pvtr`, actively interacts with software resources to verify that systems behave as expected, testing from both normal user and attacker perspectives to identify security vulnerabilities and misconfigurations that static analysis might miss.

Privateer orchestrates plugin-based tests and provides consistent, machine-readable output according to the [Gemara](https://gemara.openssf.org) specification. This structure allows any number of resources to be subject to any number of assessment requirements, enabling community-driven and organization-specific compliance validation at scale.

> The project addresses an unfulfilled need in the open source security ecosystem: a neutral, extensible validation framework that can execute security and compliance checks against deployed software or configurations using community-maintained plugin catalogs. Existing users include the FINOS Common Cloud Controls project, the OpenSSF ORBIT initiative (via the [GitHub repo scanner plugin](https://github.com/ossf/pvtr-github-repo-scanner)), and LFX Insights for scanning CNCF projects against the OpenSSF Baseline.

Reviewer: Probably just nit-picking here - so please don't take it the wrong way: Would changing "unfulfilled need" to "novel approach to an existing area" make sense, taking the existence and differences between Scorecard and Privateer into account?

Reviewer 2: It wouldn't be an unreasonable change. The unfilfilled need in this quote is for an extensible catalog-driven evaluation framework. Something like Scorecard is a scanner for a specific control set, while Privateeer enables development of parallel scanners.

Or from another perspective, the parallel would be between Scorecard and a single plugin (e.g. the OSPS Baseline githu repo scanner).

```suggestion
The project provides a novel approach to accelerate the development of security and compliance evaluators. It provides a neutral, extensible validation framework that can execute security and compliance checks against deployed software or configurations using community-maintained plugin catalogs. Existing users include the FINOS Common Cloud Controls project, the OpenSSF ORBIT initiative (via the [GitHub repo scanner plugin](https://github.com/ossf/pvtr-github-repo-scanner)), and LFX Insights for scanning CNCF projects against the OpenSSF Baseline.
```

Reviewer: Thanks, @eddie-knight! Yes, that distinction, in terms of a novel approach to evaluators, is what I was thinking about. Thanks for the update.

**Pillars:**

* *Programs & Projects* - Privateer is already actively used within OpenSSF programs (ORBIT, Baseline) and Linux Foundation projects (FINOS CCC, LFX Insights). Bringing it under OpenSSF governance formalizes this relationship and ensures continuity.

### IP policy and licensing due diligence

When contributing an existing Project to the OpenSSF, the contribution must undergo license and IP due diligence by the Linux Foundation (LF).

Yes - IP and license due diligence will be required. The project is currently licensed under Apache 2.0. The contribution will need to go through LF Legal for IP transfer as outlined in the [contribution plan](https://github.com/privateerproj/privateer/issues/271). Tracking issue: https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/629

### Project References

The project should provide a list of existing resources with links to the repository, and if available, website, a roadmap, contributing guide, demos and walkthroughs, and any other material to showcase the existing breadth, maturity, and direction of the project.

| Reference | URL |
|-----------|-----|
| Repo | https://github.com/privateerproj/privateer |
| Website | https://privateerproj.com |

> | Contributing guide | https://github.com/privateerproj/privateer/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Contributing guide | https://github.com/privateerproj/privateer/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md |
```
Minor: fixing link

> | Security.md | https://github.com/privateerproj/.github/blob/main/.github/SECURITY.md |

Reviewer 3: I didn't see a `SECURITY.md` in the repo?

Author: If you to to the URL it reroutes automatically to the organization. Expected. The `.github` is required for the redirect. So we need to keep it. Otherwise it 404s.
